There was a leader in the Salvation Army named Albert Osborne, and Osborne wrote a wonderful hymn about the compassion of Jesus Christ.
Compassion means feeling love and mercy for someone who's hurting.
And in today's scripture reading, Jesus goes up a mountain and sits down, and people bring to him those who are hurting.
The lame, the blind, the crippled, the new to many others. And Jesus heals them.
He fulfills the words of the prophet in Isaiah 35, verse five through six, that says,
Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened,
And the ears of the deaf, deaf unstopped,
Then shall the lame man leap like a deer, and the tongue of the mute sing for joy.
And then after Jesus is with the crowd for a number of days, Jesus says to his disciples, and I'm reading Jesus's words in Matthew 15:15,
In verse 23, Jesus says, I have compassion on the crowd.
Because they've been with me now three days and have nothing to eat.
"'And I'm unwilling to send them away hungry, "'lest they faint on the way.'"
And then Jesus feeds the crowd of four thousand, with seven loaves of bread and a few small fish.
In today's reading, Jesus clearly says, I have compassion.
And Jesus won't send the people away hungry.
This is part of who Jesus is.
Compassionate.
and albert orsborn song says.
Quote, accept, I am moved with compassion,
How dwelleth thy spirit in me?
Word and word
And indeed,
Burning love is my need.
I know I can find this in thee.
This song is a prayer, asking God to give us the same compassion that Jesus has.
So that we will show his love in this world.
Where so many people are hurting.
my name is scott hone and you're listening to bonito bay methodist church's podcast on the gospel of matthew.
Today's Wednesday, February 18th.
Today's Ash Wednesday.
It's the day we begin the season of Lent.
When we are particularly mindful of our need to repent, our need to change our ways,
and get them more in line with Jesus' way of being.
And taking up compassion is a good step in becoming more like Jesus.
Today we're reading Matthew chapter 15, verse 21 through 39.
And the title for today's reading is faith and provision
God provides. Jesus sees our needs and hurts and provides for us.
And we are to trust in him.
Believe in him. have faith in him.
Today's reading begins with the story of a Canaanite woman who has faith in Jesus. She cries out to Jesus to help her.
To help her daughter particularly who is oppressed by a demon
A first reading of the story may seem troubling to us. Jesus and his disciples are up in the north of Galilee. They're up in Lebanon in the region of Tyre and Sidon.
They have withdrawn from the crowds of Israelites.
Maybe they're up there to rest
Maybe they're up there so Jesus could focus on being with and teaching the twelve.
The future leaders of the church.
a canaanite woman hears that jesus is up there and she comes crying to him saying have mercy on me o lord son of david.
My daughter is really oppressed by a demon.
That's a confession of faith.
She calls Jesus Lord, and she recognizes Jesus as the Jewish Messiah, the son of David.
She cries for mercy, for compassion.
And Jesus doesn't answer her word. Can you believe that?
And the disciples begged Jesus to send her away.
And Jesus says to the disciples,
I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
And the woman overhears and kneels before Jesus and says, Lord, help me.
And Jesus answers, It's not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs.
and this woman has which she's smart, she's ready to debate and and she's desperate for help and so she answers.
Yes, lord, yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from the master's table.
And Jesus says, "Oh woman, great is your faith."
Be it done for you as you desire
And her daughter is healed instantly
Now, to be honest,
It troubles me that Jesus would ignore this woman at first, but Matthew is teaching us something about the faith of Gentiles in this story.
Matthew begins his gospel with the story of Gentiles, the Magi coming to baby Jesus to worship him.
And Matthew ends his gospel with the resurrected Jesus, commissioning us to stop us to go among all the nations, to go out among all the Gentiles.
And make disciples of them, the Gentiles, and baptizing them in the name of the Father.
the Son and the Holy Spirit.
Matthew shows us that Gentiles, such as this Canaanite woman, are included in God's kingdom.
But during Jesus's earthly ministry, Jesus focused on the people of Israel.
Yet Gentiles such as this woman still came to Jesus asking for his help.
And they had more faith in Jesus than many of the people of Israel.
Matthew calls her a Canaanite woman. And this is,
I really am.
An acronistic term
Because there were no Canaanites in Jesus' day. Calling the woman a Canaanite.
100% would be like us today calling an American a British-American.
Colonist
When the American states stopped being British colonies way back in the 1700s after the Revolutionary War,
The Canaanites
They were the people in the Old Testament. Those who were outside the covenant way back when Israel took the promised land after the Exodus.
And now, Cain and I, woman receives God's grace and compassion and
She professes
It possesses and professes faith in Christ forever.
And she's now included in the people of God, and her daughter is healed, and she's blessed, and Jesus affirms her faith.
And remember, we're saved by grace through faith.
And if you
Look earlier in Matthew's Gospel, in Matthew 10:4, when Matthew lists the twelve whom Jesus chooses to be his apostles.
Matthew mentions Simon, whom Matthew calls the Canaanite.
Matthew knows that
The Canaanites and Canaanites are Old Testament terms that are no longer used in this eastern part of the Roman Empire.
Yet Matthew still intentionally uses these terms to show us the extent of God's mercy and grace and to show us that all kinds of people are now recipients of God's favor and compassion and Jesus.
And Jesus Christ. Amen.
matthews original audience would not have been troubled by the story.
They would have celebrated how broad and available God's creation and compassion is.
Oh, if we all would have the faith of this Canaanite woman.
And we all would have the boundless compassion of Jesus Christ.
God make this so that that's my prayer.
Thank you for listening.
This podcast is produced by Kenny Stewart.